Other than moving about and being fun to look at, autonomous agents can have a **purpose**.

# Just imagine...

You could be simulating creatures in a hazardous environment, in which case boids should include a **survival goal**. In fact, boids can have any kind of relationship with the environment you put them in.

For example, boids could grow hungry and die if they do not find a source of food, in which case they would **cooperate** by sending each other information on the whereabouts of foodstuffs but **compete** for the food once they find it. A possible implementation of this could be adding a force to your boids towards distant **pheremones** that the boids secrete once they start eating, as well as a force to move towards nearby food once it is spotted. 

Maybe the boids could even eat each other. With such a mechanic it would make sense to add a **fear** force to your boids, which would steer them away from potential danger. 

The environment could include walls that the boids cannot pass. The boids could then include an **avoid running into a wall** force. This force, combined with the nature of flocking could be used to navigate a maze. If the maze is a particularly complicated one, boids would need to develop a memory or other persistent system to retain information about dead-ends and such. For instance, ants place pheromones on the ground that other ants can follow.

# Sample

In this example boids try to stay clear from walls and are attracted to food. **Left click in the viewer to place some food**.

@[Environment Sample]({
	"command": "sh run.sh environment",
	"stubs": []
})